Troubleshooting Ramp login 
issues
V er ific ation Verified
Owner 2 G Gumloop
Help Cent er 
URL 
https://support.ramp.com/hc/en-us/articles/1500005527981
Troubleshooting-Ramp-login-issues
T ags 
Last edited at: 20250707T151150Z  
Help Center URL Troubleshooting Ramp login issues
Overview
Having trouble logging into Ramp? Follow these steps to get back on track.
Before you begin
If you are logging in for the first time, follow this guide.
Otherwise, please make sure that you are using the correct login method: email 
and password or Single Sign On SSO. If you arenʼt sure if youʼve used a 
password or SSO in the past, try using the password reset form. The form will 
either allow you to reset your password or notify you via email that your 
organization uses SSO.
T r oubleshooting R amp login issues
1
Jump to:
Forgotten credentials
Stolen password
Not receiving password reset email
Phone number for MFA no longer active
MFA SMS delivery issues
Forgotten authenticator app for MFA
Single sign-on SSO issues
Understanding Ramp error messages
Additional resources
What if I forgot my credentials?
Forgotten username
If you forgot your username, try signing in with the email address associated with 
your Ramp account. If youʼre still unsure, contact your IT department for help.
Forgotten password
If you forgot your password, first request to reset your password. Then, follow the 
instructions in the email you receive.
T r oubleshooting R amp login issues
2
What if I no longer see the option to login with 
password?
No longer seeing log in with password
If you no longer see the option to sign in with a password, your account may be 
set up to use Single Sign-On SSO instead.
 Try signing in using one of the providers shown on the login screen—like 
Google, Microsoft Entra, Okta, OneLogin, or JumpCloud.
    If your email uses Google Workspace Gmail), Ramp may support Google SSO 
for you automatically—even if your company hasnʼt explicitly set up SSO.
2. No provider listed? You may be prompted to use a passkey instead.
    Passkeys are a more secure way to log in. They replace passwords and are 
resistant to phishing, using your deviceʼs built-in security features.
If none of these options work, then you can reset your password. Then, follow the 
instructions in the email you receive.
What if my password was stolen?
If you believe your password was stolen, reset it immediately using the password 
reset link and notify your IT department.
T r oubleshooting R amp login issues
3
What if I didn't receive a password reset email?
First, check your spam or junk folder. Ensure youʼre using the email address 
associated with your Ramp account. If you still havenʼt received it, contact our 
support team for further assistance.
What if I can no longer access the phone number used 
to receive MFA codes?
If you no longer have access to your original phone number used for MFA 
(independent of SMS or call), you can request to change the phone number in the 
login screen by following the steps in this article.
What if I can't receive the MFA codes by SMS?
If you cannot receive MFA codes sent by SMS, please review the steps described 
in this article.
What if I no longer have my authenticator app for MFA?
If you no longer have access to your original authenticator app used for MFA, you 
can request to set up a new authenticator app in the login screen by following the 
steps in this article.
What if I'm facing SSO issues?
T r oubleshooting R amp login issues
4
Google SSO
 Ensure youʼre using the correct email address registered with Ramp. 
Sometimes users accidentally select their personal email address.
 If needed, contact your IT department for clarification.
SAML SSO (e.g. Okta, Microsoft Entra ID)
 Ask your IT department if Okta SSO is activated for Ramp.
 Confirm your email address is enabled to access Ramp.
 Try logging in directly to Ramp instead of through Okta.
What if Iʼm seeing an error message on the login 
screen?
Message R e ason 
We're unable to log you in.
Your account may be locked, or your account may have
been deactivated. Please confirm with your
Administrator.
Network error encountered.
This usually indicates a device or network issue. Please
try a different browser, device, and/or network. Also,
make sure to disable any ad blockers or VPNs.
Too many failed login attempts.
Wait and try again or reset your
password.
Please wait before trying to log in again. Unfortunately,
the exact wait time is out of our control.
Your session has expired. Sign
in again.
This may be due to timezone issues. Please make sure
your device timezone aligns with the server. You can
validate this here.
T r oubleshooting R amp login issues
5
Message R e ason 
We are having trouble
authenticating you. Try again or
contact support.
Likely due to too many login attempts. Please reset your
password and wait before logging in again.
Oops, something went wrong. Please contact our support team for further assistance.
What if I still need help?
Below are some additional resources you can reference:
Review the initial sign-in guide for first-time Ramp users.
Ensure your web browser allows pop-up windows; blocking them can cause 
login issues.
If youʼve followed these steps and still canʼt log in, please vote on the article and 
provide a comment with feedback about what's missing - we are always trying to 
improve these articles!
After that, please contact our support team for further assistance and we would 
be happy to assist you with your issue.
T r oubleshooting R amp login issues
6