Booking travel on Ramp: 
Employee guide
V er ific ation Verified
Owner 2 G Gumloop
Help 
Cent er URL 
https://support.ramp.com/hc/en-us/articles/28991294745491
Booking-travel-on-Ramp-Employee-guide
T ags 
Last edited at: 20250716T224139Z  
Help Center URL Booking travel on Ramp  Employee guide
Want to book a trip using Ramp Travel? You're in the right place!  
Want to book travel using Ramp funds and another travel platform? Read more 
[here](https://support.ramp.com/hc/en-us/articles/28991373763091.
Overview
We're excited to introduce Ramp Travel, your streamlined solution for business 
travel. With Ramp Travel, booking flights and hotels is easy. You can search for 
flights and hotels directly within Ramp and know exactly which options are within 
your company's policy. After booking with Ramp Travel, there's no need to hassle 
with receipt submissions. Everything is seamlessly managed on the same spend 
management platform. You can also easily track and manage all your bookings 
and trips within the Travel tab.
Jump to:
Booking tra v el on R amp: Emplo y ee guide
1
Overview  
How it works  
Booking flights  
Booking hotels  
Booking cars  
Submitting travel requests for approval  
How do I cancel my booking?  
How do I modify my booking?  
   For flights  
   For hotels  
How do I retrieve my booking details?  
Mid-trip disruptions and emergency situations  
   Flights  
   Hotels  
Frequently Asked Questions FAQs)
How it works
Booking Travel on Ramp is easy. Navigate to "Home" on your left-hand panel and 
select the "My Trips" tab. You can search for flights and hotels, as well as access 
any previous or upcoming booking(s) or trip(s) on both your desktop and mobile 
devices.
🔗  Check out how to book on Ramp Travel with this video.
Booking tra v el on R amp: Emplo y ee guide
2
Note that you will not be able to see this tab unless your admin has enabled this 
function for their employees. See here for more details on booking travel off-ramp.
Booking flights 
Follow the steps below to book your desired flights:
 Enter your travel details: On the My Trips page, enter your departure city or 
airport, destination city or airport, departure date, and return date (if it's a 
round trip), and click on the "Search flights" button.  
   !Screenshot 20250620 at 1.42.48 PM.png
2. Review search results: Ramp will display a list of available flights based on 
your criteria and you can filter by price, airline, departure time, policy etc. Evaluate 
options and select a flight that meets your company's travel policy. The icon next 
to the price indicates whether a flight is within your travel policy. If a flight is 
flagged as out of policy, toggle on the price to learn why. If you believe a flight 
outside the policy is justified, ensure you have the necessary approvals before 
booking.
3. Review fare options: Some flights may offer different fare options, such as 
basic economy, economy, or business class with different cancellation policies 
and perks. Review these options carefully to see what's included. The icon next to 
the price indicates policy compliance on the top right. Once you're ready, click 
"Continue to checkout".
4. Enter traveler information: After selecting your flight, enter your passenger 
information. You'll only need to enter your information once since Ramp saves the 
data for easier checkout in the future.
Booking tra v el on R amp: Emplo y ee guide
3
5. Select trip and funds:  Select the corresponding trip if you have already 
created one, or create a new trip to manage expenses easily. Then, select the 
correct funds.
   !travel confirmation - trip + card selection.jpg
6. Review and confirm: Before completing your booking, review all the details, 
including the flight itinerary, passenger information, fare options, and cancellation 
policy. Make sure everything is correct, as some bookings may be non-refundable 
and most flights do not allow cancellation after 24 hours of booking.
7. Complete booking: Once you're ready, click on the "Book flight" button to 
finalize your reservation. If the booking is successful, you will receive a 
confirmation email shortly afterward with all the details of your booking.
8. View your booking (optional): After booking your flight, you can navigate to the 
"Travel" tab on Ramp's website to view your booking itinerary, cancel your flight 
(if it is within the cancellation period), or resend your confirmation email. 
To add extras such as travel insurance, paid pieces of baggage, as well as online 
check-in, please log into the airline app or website and manage your booking from 
there.
Booking hotels 
Follow the steps below to book your desired hotel:
Booking tra v el on R amp: Emplo y ee guide
4
 Enter your travel details: On the My Trips page, toggle to "Hotels" and enter 
your destination city or area, check-in date, and check-out date. Click on the 
"Search hotels" button.   
   !Screenshot 20250620 at 1.44.17 PM.png
2. Review search results: Ramp will display a list of available hotels based on your 
criteria and you can filter by hotel class, price, policy, etc. Evaluate options and 
select a hotel that meets your company's travel policy. The red icon next to the 
price/night indicates whether a hotel is out of policy, you can toggle on the icon to 
learn why. If you believe a hotel outside the policy is justified, ensure you have the 
necessary approvals before booking.
3. Review hotel and different room options: Click "Select" on the hotel you're 
interested in to access more information and choose between the different room 
options. Different room types may offer different cancellation policies and perks. 
Review these options carefully to see what's included. The icon next to the price 
indicates policy compliance. Once you've decided, click "Select".
4. Enter traveler information: Enter your personal information. You'll only need to 
enter your information once since Ramp saves the data for easier checkout in the 
future.  
For adding/linking your loyalty program, please contact the hotel directly (a phone 
number will be provided on the booking confirmation page).
5. Select trip and funds:  Select the corresponding trip if you have already 
created one, or create a new trip to manage expenses easily. Then, select the 
correct funds.
Booking tra v el on R amp: Emplo y ee guide
5
6. Review and confirm: Before completing your booking, review all the details, 
including the hotel details, personal information, refunds, and cancellation policy. 
Make sure everything is correct, as some bookings may be non-refundable.
7. Complete booking: Once you're ready, click on the "Book hotel" button to 
finalize your reservation. If the booking is successful, you will receive a 
confirmation email shortly afterward with all the details of your booking.
8. View your booking (optional): After booking your flight, you can navigate to the 
"Travel" tab on Ramp's website to view your booking details, cancel your hotel (if 
it is within the cancellation period), or resend your confirmation email. 
Booking Cars
Follow these steps to book your desired car rental on Ramp:
 Enter Your Travel Details:  
On the My Trips page, toggle to "Cars" and input your pick-up location, drop-off 
location, pick-up date, and drop-off date. Then click on the "Search cars" button.  
   !Screenshot 20250620 at 1.46.06 PM.png
2. Review Search Results:  
Ramp will display a list of available car rentals based on your criteria. You can 
filter by car type, price, policy compliance, and more. Evaluate your options and 
select a car that meets your company's travel policy. A red icon next to the rate 
will indicate if a car rental is out of policy—click the icon to see the details. If you 
need to book a car outside of policy, ensure you have the necessary approvals 
before proceeding.
Booking tra v el on R amp: Emplo y ee guide
6
3. Review Car Details and Options:  
Confirm that the rental aligns with your requirements and policy compliance. Once 
satisfied, click "Select" to proceed.
4. Enter Traveler Information:  
Fill in your personal details. Ramp saves your information for future bookings, so 
you'll only need to enter it once.
5. Select Trip and Funds:  
Choose the corresponding trip if you have already created one, or create a new 
trip to help manage your expenses. Then, select the appropriate funds for the 
expense.
6. Review and Confirm:  
Before finalizing your booking, review all the details, including the car rental 
information, personal details, refund policies, and cancellation terms. Ensure that 
everything is correct, especially since some bookings may be non-refundable.
7. Complete Booking:  
Once you're ready, click on the "Book car" button to finalize your reservation. If 
the booking is successful, you'll receive a confirmation email shortly afterward 
with all the details of your rental.
8. View Your Booking Optional):  
After booking your car, you can navigate to the "Travel" tab on Ramp's website to 
view your booking details, cancel your rental (if within the allowed cancellation 
period), or resend your confirmation email.
Booking tra v el on R amp: Emplo y ee guide
7
This step-by-step process ensures that you get the best corporate rates and 
maintain compliance with your company's travel policies—all while enjoying the 
ease of managing your travel in one place with Ramp.
Submitting travel requests for approval
Depending on your company's travel policy, some travel bookings may require 
manager or admin approval before you can complete your booking on Ramp.
 Book your travel: Select your flight or hotel as usual.  
 Submit for approval: At the end of the checkout flow, click the "Submit 
Request" button.  
 Notification: Your manager or admin will be notified of your request.  
 Approval: Upon approval, the booking will be processed, and you will receive 
a confirmation email.
Please note that the price of the booking may change, and the request will reflect 
the latest price. You can track the status of your travel request by navigating to My 
Home  My Trips  Requests.
How do I cancel my booking?
If your booking is within the cancellation period, you can cancel on Ramp's 
website. Go to "Travel" under "My Ramp" and select the booking you want to 
cancel. Scroll down and click "Cancel reservation". 
Booking tra v el on R amp: Emplo y ee guide
8
If your booking has passed the cancellation period, you may see a chat option 
which you can use to contact our provider in order to make updates.
   The booking details page contains the trip ID you'll need to provide. Note that 
you will not be able to cancel your booking from Ramp's website and the Ramp 
Support team won't be able to assist with cancellation. 
If your booking is within 24 hours of the scheduled flight or hotel stay, contact 
the airline or hotel directly. 
How do I modify my booking? 
For flights
If you need to modify travel dates, flight fare class, or hotel room type, please 
check your booking's modification and cancellation policy:  
Booking tra v el on R amp: Emplo y ee guide
9
The best first course of action is to go to "Travel" under "My Ramp" and select 
the booking you want to modify or cancel. In this page you may be able to 
cancel your flight directly, or see a chat widget which you can use to contact 
our provider to make any intended modifications.
If your booking is within 24 hours of the scheduled flight or hotel stay, contact 
the airline directly. 
For hotels
If you are extending your hotel stay, make a new booking via Ramp Travel 
portal and call the hotel to combine the 2 reservations. 
If you are shortening your hotel stay or modifying travel dates:
   If your booking is refundable, you could cancel your booking and rebook with 
Ramp Travel. It may take a few minutes for the refund to reach your funds. 
Otherwise, you can also contact Priceline at 1 800 6579168 directly.
   If your booking is NOT refundable, contact Priceline at 1 800 6579168 
directly.
For cars
For post-paid car modifications the best approach is to book a new car rental 
and cancel your original for a full refund.
For pre-paid car modifications, contact Priceline at 1 800 6579168 directly.
How do I retrieve my booking details?
Booking tra v el on R amp: Emplo y ee guide
10
Go to the "My Trips" tab under "Home" and select the desired booking. Click 
"Resend email" to resend the flight or hotel confirmation email.
Mid-trip disruptions and emergency situations
Flights
In the event of mid-trip disruptions or emergency situations such as delay, 
disruption, or cancellation within 24 hours of your flight, contact the airline or 
hotel directly for immediate assistance. The contact details of the airline or hotel 
can be found on the booking details page under the "Travel" tab of "My Ramp". 
Otherwise utilize the chat widget that can be found on this page.
Hotels
To get help with your booking, go to your booking details page and select the 
option to contact Duffel or Priceline for support. You can also reach Priceline 
directly at 1 800 6579168.
Delegate Booking 
Assistants can book business travel on behalf of other employees. After someone 
is assigned as an assistant, they can book and manage travel directly for the 
traveler, with personal details and travel policies auto-filled and applied, making 
the booking process much faster and more efficient.
Booking tra v el on R amp: Emplo y ee guide
11
To learn more about setting up an assistant and how to use this feature, visit 
Travel Delegate Booking via Assistant Role.
Please note: this feature is currently only available to businesses that have 
enabled Ramp Travel for all employees.
Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs)
What happens to the approval if the flight/hotel room is no longer 
available before the manager approves?  
  The booking fails, users receive an email asking them to rebook.
Iʼm not sure if my booking went through—what should I do?  
  Sometimes confirming a booking can take a little longer than expected. Once it's 
confirmed or failed, weʼll send an update to your work email. If you see a charge 
on your card for the booking amount, that usually means it was successful—you 
should receive a confirmation email within 10 minutes.
I didn't receive my confirmation email; how can I get my booking details?  
  You can resend your itinerary by navigating to My Ramp  Travel, selecting the 
desired booking to open up the booking details page, and clicking the "Resend 
email" button. Feel free to reach out to Ramp support at any time as well.
Can I make a booking on behalf of a team member?  
  Yes, after the traveler assigns you as their Assistant, you can book and manage 
travel on their behalf. See more details here.
Can I coordinate group trips and make a group booking?  
Booking tra v el on R amp: Emplo y ee guide
12
  As of today, you will not be able to coordinate group trips or book multiple flights 
or rooms in one go, but we expect to support this functionality in 2025.
Why do I not see any Southwest flights available?  
  Currently, we do not support Southwest Airlines' inventory as they tend not to 
partner with online travel agencies for marketing or ticket sales. We are working 
on unlocking this in early 2025.
Can I redeem flights or hotels with points?  
  Whilst users can add in their frequent flyer information to accrue points for flights 
only, they cannot use points to purchase flight or hotel bookings.
How do rewards or loyalty programs function for flights and hotels?  
   For flights, you can enter your Known Traveler Number or membership detail on 
the confirmation page or in your Traveler profile My Ramp  Travel  Traveler 
Profile) while you are booking your flight. If you are not able to add this on Ramp, 
you can also add it on the airline's website directly after you book!    
   For hotels, because we are getting discounted fares for hotels, we cannot 
guarantee rewards will work with hotels. However, many users have had success 
applying rewards or loyalty benefits by calling the hotels directly or applying 
rewards upon hotel check-in.
What is the process for booking multi-city trips?  
  Currently, we do not support multi-city trips. The best way is to book multiple 
one-way flights.
Do negotiated rates with specific hotels appear on Ramp?  
  Our rates are powered by Priceline. Ramp does not offer negotiated rates beyond 
Priceline's standard rates with no booking fee. However, we have an agreement 
with Priceline to help our customers save on travel costs. You should find that total 
Booking tra v el on R amp: Emplo y ee guide
13
pricing on Ramp is lower than standard publicly available rates. If you do run into 
cases where the same inventory is cheaper elsewhere, we would be happy to 
investigate. 
Can I book a car rental via Ramp?  
  We are building this; stay tuned!
How can I set up or edit my Traveler Profile?  
  Go to My Ramp  Travel tab, and click "Traveler profile" on the left-hand side to 
add or edit your information.
Our team is working hard to build and unlock further features to better support 
you and your team, and we would love to hear from you! If you have any feedback, 
please complete this survey.
Booking tra v el on R amp: Emplo y ee guide
14