Manage your communication 
preferences
Verification Verified
Owner 2 G Gumloop
Help Center
URL
https://support.ramp.com/hc/en-us/articles/1500001914421
Manage-your-communication-preferences
Tags
Last edited at: 20250723T200421Z  
Help Center URL Manage your communication preferences
Overview
Ramp offers a comprehensive notification system that keeps you informed about 
various activities on the platform through SMS, email, and push notifications.
Note: Some notifications are mandatory due to legal obligations, agreements, or 
requirements from financial institution partners.
Manage your notification preferences
Go to Profile (top right)  My settings → Notifications]
(https://app.ramp.com/settings/personal-settings/notifications) to manage 
your preferences.
Manage y our communic ation pr ef er ences
1
Depending on your role on Ramp, you can manage different types of notifications:
Personal activity: Cardholders can set preferences for when and how Ramp 
reminds them about things related to their activity on Ramp. This includes 
when to submit receipts for your own transactions, any applicable approvals 
(reimbursements, cards, Bill Pay), reminders, and any Bill Pay alerts.
Company activity: Admins, card managers, and business owners can manage 
different notifications related to the companyʼs activity on Ramp. This includes 
an email digest (options to receive the digest daily or weekly), savings 
updates, teammate activities, savings insights, spend reports, and 
notifications about missing items.
Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs)
Which Ramp numbers will I receive/send communications from?
Our shortcode, HIRAMP 447267  
Our longcode, 1 844 331 1023  
And for the UK & some international cases, we have 44 7883 317746
For those with mobile devices and carriers that have rich communication support 
RCS, Ramp will automatically send messages via RCS instead of our traditional 
numbers. RCS is a new standard agreed upon by mobile carriers and phone 
manufacturers that will likely be supported by additional devices, countries, and 
mobile carriers over time. It will replace SMS and MMS. Inbound messages sent to 
our phone numbers will continue to be received, though outbound messages from 
Ramp will default to RCS when available.
Manage y our communic ation pr ef er ences
2
What does the RCS contact look like?
The RCS contact will show as "verified" and have all the standard Ramp support 
information, such as the website address, support phone number, and terms and 
conditions.
Why might Google Messages not be able to send attachments or otherwise 
seem unreliable?  
Some mobile carriers have known limitations. For example, Google Voice numbers 
are unable to deliver MMS messages to our Ramp shortcode HIRAMP. Google 
Voice users should use our 1 844 331 1023 number instead to send MMS.
How can I identify emails that allow me to manage my notification preferences?
Emails that allow you to manage your notification preferences will have a link at 
the bottom that says Update notification preferences.
What should I do if I'm not receiving notifications that I've subscribed to?  
Check your spam or junk mail folder to ensure that the notifications aren't being 
filtered. If the issue persists, contact Support for assistance.
Can I receive Ramp notifications in Slack?  
Yes! Ramp offers a Slack integration that allows you to receive real-time alerts for 
card transactions, bill approvals, and more directly in Slack. To set this up, follow 
the steps in our Slack integration guide for Admins.
Can I turn off all notifications?  
Some notifications are mandatory due to legal obligations and cannot be turned 
off. Hereʼs why:
Manage y our communic ation pr ef er ences
3
Our Platform Agreement Section 3.12 requires Ramp to notify customers about 
material changes to the Platform Terms or other service terms. This gives you a 
chance to review important updates and, if needed, stop using the service before 
changes take effect. In particular, the Platform Agreement states that:
If we make material modifications, weʼll give customers reasonable prior notice
before those changes apply to them—unless immediate changes are needed for 
legal, compliance, or risk-related reasons.
Some changes are mandated by law or regulation (e.g., changes involving fees, 
dispute procedures, or privacy rights may trigger specific notice requirements 
under UDAAP, EFTA, Reg E, or CCPA/CPRA.
Manage y our communic ation pr ef er ences
4