Submitting receipts and memos 
for your Ramp funds
V er ific ation Verified
Owner 2 G Gumloop
Help 
Cent er URL 
https://support.ramp.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042588454
Submitting-receipts-and-memos-for-your-Ramp-funds
T ags 
Last edited at: 20250711T182545Z  
Help Center URL Submitting receipts and memos for your Ramp funds
Overview
Ramp offers multiple ways for you to submit receipts and memos for transactions 
on Ramp funds. The following article will cover submitting items for such 
transactions.
Please note that if you would like your company to reimburse you for spend 
incurred on a non-Ramp fund, you will want to refer to this reimbursement article 
instead. If you are an admin and would like to set up reimbursements for those 
transactions made on your employees' funds, please view this guide.
Jump to:
Ways to submit receipts
Submit ting r eceipt s and memos f or y our R amp funds
1
Leveraging our automatic receipt matching
Forwarding receipts via additional email addresses
Automated memos
Ramp suggested memos via SMS
Submitting memos via email
Frequently Asked Questions FAQs)
Ways to submit receipts
After you make a transaction on your physical card, funds, or virtual card, you can 
send your receipts to Ramp in a few ways:
Channel Receipts Memos Accounting Fields
| SMS      | Text us at HIRAMP  
447267  We try to match it with a transaction, or you can create a 
reimbursement  
For international users, please text 8443311023 (toll-free)                                       
| Text us - we will add the memo to the last transaction | Click the submission link 
sent via SMS for a mobile-friendly submission flow |
| Email    | Forward to receipts@ramp.com. See how to set-up here.  
Reimbursements must be forwarded to reimbursements@ramp.com)                       
| Add "memo: enter your memo" in the body of the email | When receipts are 
captured automatically with the Gmail integration, we offer the option to code 
dynamic fields |
Ramp.com Click into the transaction
to upload the receipt or
bulk upload manually via
Click into the
transaction or
missing items section
and add a memo
Click into the
transaction or
missing items section
and enter the field
Submit ting r eceipt s and memos f or y our R amp funds
2
the missing items
section.
Mobile App
Capture a receipt using
our mobile app or use the
share extension on your
phone
Tap into the
transaction to record
your memo
Scroll further to add
your accounting
fields in-app
| Slack    | Send your receipt to the Ramp app on Slack  
Simple type /ramp, press enter, then attach a picture of your receipt to the next 
message)                                                                                        | Add a memo when 
the Slack app prompts you to (after the receipt has been matched) | Click on the 
link within Slack to enter the fields within the Ramp website |
Leveraging automatic receipt matching
Ramp offers automatic receipt matching for multiple languages/countries and 
international currencies, which means that we'll automatically match your receipts 
to the correct transactions in seconds. You no longer have to spend time finding 
receipts and attaching them to your transactions— Ramp will do it for you. 
For transactions made in person, we'll notify you via SMS when a receipt is 
required. Simply reply with a photo of your receipt or text us at HIRAMP 447
267. Any text you add to this SMS will be added as a memo.
For online transactions, we'll notify you via email when a receipt is required. 
Simply respond or email/forward your receipt(s) directly to 
receipts@ramp.com. Simply add "memo: enter your memo" in the body of the 
email after attaching to the email the receipt for that specific transaction, and 
we'll automatically add the memo.
Set up automatic receipt forwarding from your mailbox. We've written more 
about this here.
Supported image types: jpg, jpeg, png, pdf
Submit ting r eceipt s and memos f or y our R amp funds
3
The maximum receipt upload size is 60MB 10MB for web submissions)
The maximum page length for PDFs is 50 pages
Pro tips
To include a memo when forwarding your receipts for automatic matching, 
simply enter Memo: insert memo here into the body of the email that you 
send to us.
   Please note that it must be submitted in this format; otherwise, it may not apply 
correctly to the transaction.
   You must also have the dynamic email setting enabled for entering memos 
within Gmail.
Ramp will send you weekly emails each Friday reminding you of any missing 
items.
Save our email (receipts@ramp.com) in your contacts.
You can forward multiple receipts to Ramp at once.
You can also set up automatic forwarding of email receipts via your mailbox. 
Read more about that here. 
Forwarding receipts via additional email addresses
Any receipt forwarded from the email associated with your Ramp account will be 
automatically matched to a transaction. We can also accept receipts from other 
email addresses you set up, such as your email address. Please note that 
additional email addresses can only be linked to one Ramp account.
 Navigate to the Settings tab  
Submit ting r eceipt s and memos f or y our R amp funds
4
 Click on Personal Settings   
 Click Edit Profile  
 Click Integrations  
 Add each email address you want to accept receipts from  
Automated memos
Employees and administrators now have the ability to set a default memo that will 
automatically apply to all transactions within a specific fund. When employees are 
prompted to submit a memo during the expense submission process, we will 
confirm with them which transactions should have this memo applied. Users can 
add memos at the fund level in the fund settings, as well as add additional memos 
at both the merchant and fund levels for other transactions.
Submit ting r eceipt s and memos f or y our R amp funds
5
When submitting a memo, users will see a dropdown menu where they can select 
the transactions to which the memo can be applied. To delete these memos, 
simply navigate to a transaction that has the automated memo and open the 
dropdown menu again to make the necessary edits.
Submit ting r eceipt s and memos f or y our R amp funds
6
Ramp suggested memos via SMS
Ramp will automatically suggest a few memos via SMS that you can select from if 
the following requirements are met:
You have a US number 1,
You have SMS notifications turned on for in-person transactions in your 
settings,
You're using your physical card or physical card number, and
Your transaction requires a memo and receipt.
Here's how it works:
If you have multiple shared funds your physical card can map transactions to, 
we'll first ask you to confirm if we matched your transaction correctly
If a receipt is required, we'll then prompt you to send in a receipt
Please note there may be a few minutes between sending the receipt photo 
and getting the text back that a receipt has been processed.
If the transaction we matched the receipt to was the last, then we'll send 
suggested memos. Otherwise, we'll send a link to complete the rest of the 
missing items.
Submit ting r eceipt s and memos f or y our R amp funds
7
If we are unsuccessful in matching the receipt, we'll prompt you to match their 
receipt to a few suggested transactions 
International employees will be linked to a different mobile web flow where 
they can add missing items after swapping the limit via the message flow
Submitting memos via email
Submit ting r eceipt s and memos f or y our R amp funds
8
If you are using Gmail, you can directly enter memos and other fields within the 
email, thanks to the power of interactive emails. No more logging in!
Submit ting r eceipt s and memos f or y our R amp funds
9
Submit ting r eceipt s and memos f or y our R amp funds
10
Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs)
What file types can I submit my receipt in?  
Currently, you can submit receipts to Ramp in the following image formats: jpg, 
jpeg, png, pdf
How long does it take for Ramp to match my receipt?  
It takes Ramp a few seconds to match a receipt. Depending on the type of receipt, 
we'll inform you whether a receipt has been successfully matched via SMS or 
email. If we don't find a match with your transactions, we'll also search 
transactions from other employees across the company for a match.
What do I do if I'm missing a receipt?  
You can click on the transaction on your Ramp dashboard. To ask to dismiss the 
receipt requirement, please navigate to the transaction or click on the 'Missing 
Items' banner from your 'My Ramp' tab. Once the transaction is open, please 
scroll and locate the vertical dots, then click on 'Request Policy Exemption'
Why hasn't my receipt matched?  
Ramp will do its best to match your receipts, but there will be times when our 
system will have a harder time finding the right match. Some common reasons this 
happens are:
The difference in date on the charge vs. the receipt
Multiple charges on a single receipt
Multiple transactions with similar information (eg. recurring SaaS spend)
If Ramp isn't able to match your receipt, don't worry! You can head over to your 
Ramp account, find the transaction that needs a receipt, and upload your receipt 
Submit ting r eceipt s and memos f or y our R amp funds
11
directly. Some things to keep in mind when you're uploading receipts in your 
Ramp account:
You can upload the same receipt to multiple transactions (eg. you purchase 
two items at Amazon, they ship separately, creating two separate charges, but 
you have only one receipt for both items)
Our system won't always be able to auto-verify receipts; if you're sure that 
you have the right receipt for the transaction, you should be all set!
Why didn't I receive an SMS notification for missing items?  
Please note: SMS notifications for missing items will only be generated when a 
physical card is used to complete the expense.
Am I only able to submit receipts via SMS for my latest transaction?  
No, users can submit receipts for past transactions, not just the most recent ones.
What if there isn't a message from Ramp requesting a memo, or the memo isn't 
required?  
We'll attach your message to the latest transaction that happened.
Can I add a receipt and/or memo to a transaction after it's been synced over?  
Once synced over, a receipt and/or memo cannot be added to it.
What happens once I submit all of my expenses?  
Once you submit all of your expenses on web, you'll get a reward from Ramp! 
You'll receive three play tokens and the ability to head to the Ramp Arcade. There, 
you can play games like Receipt Snake and Ramp Ramp Revolution. You will need 
to click on the coin to play the games. Continue to submit your expenses on time 
to get an even higher score with each receipt submitted!
Submit ting r eceipt s and memos f or y our R amp funds
12