Faster Payments
Verification Verified
Owner 2 G Gumloop
Help Center
URL
https://support.ramp.com/hc/en-
us/articles/38708240013843Faster-Payments
Tags
Last edited at: 20250523T200124Z  
Help Center URL https://support.ramp.com/hc/en-us/articles/38708240013843
Faster-Payments  
Overview
Faster Payments is an optional feature designed to help you get paid more quickly 
for invoices processed through Ramp Bill Pay. Instead of waiting days for a 
standard ACH transfer, you can opt in to receive payment as fast as the same day 
—minus a small 1% fee— so you can access your cash sooner. 
Why Use Faster Payments?
Boost Your Cash Flows: get your money sooner so you can reinvest or cover 
expenses without delay.  
Reduce Payment Processing Anxiety: Faster Payments can help you avoid 
the typical waiting period for standard ACH transfers.  
Easy One-Click Acceptance: opt in through a simple link in your email or via 
the Vendor Portal. No complicated setup or additional documentation needed.  
F ast er Pa yment s
1
How It Works
Payment Initiation
Your customer schedules a payment through Ramp Bill Pay. Normally, this 
payment would arrive via a standard ACH transfer in about 35 business days.
Faster Payment Offer
If your payment is eligible, youʼll receive the offer in an email or see the offer in 
your Vendor Portal (if you have an account) in your invoice details. Not all 
payments are eligible and offers are not guaranteed.
F ast er Pa yment s
2
Accepting the Offer
Click the link in the email or use the button in the Vendor Portal to confirm your 
payment date and that you want to accept Faster Payments. Please also confirm 
the destination account bank details where the payment will be deposited. 
F ast er Pa yment s
3
You do not need a Vendor Portal account to accept the offer; you can accept it 
directly from the email. However, having an account offers additional visibility 
into your payment statuses and simplifies future Faster Payments.  
Offer timeline: If you accept the offer after 4PM ET, your payment may arrive 
the next business day. This ensures we have enough time to process the 
same-day ACH in the appropriate window.   
Offer expiration: The offer typically expires once the faster payment has been 
initiated (usually about 48 hours from when the payment is scheduled). After 
that window, your payment will continue under the normal ACH schedule.  
F ast er Pa yment s
4
Bank details: Youʼll have a chance to review your account information when 
you accept the Faster Payments offer. If thereʼs an issue after youʼve 
confirmed, please contact our Support Team immediately for assistance.  
Transfer
After accepting the offer, Ramp changes the payment to same-day ACH for faster 
delivery. Funds will then land in your bank account on the date specified on your 
offer page (minus a 1% fee).
If you accept after 4 PM ET, your payment may arrive the next business day.
Once your payment is processing, you'll see a Payment initiated status in your 
Vendor Portal account. This status will change to Paid once the payment is 
complete and made to your payment account.
Your customer will be able to see that the payment was delivered earlier than 
scheduled, but not that you elected to use Faster Payments. 
How much does Faster Payments cost
We charge a 1% fee, which is deducted from the final payment amount. There are 
no other hidden charges.
F ast er Pa yment s
5