Bill payment methods and 
timelines
V er ific ation Verified
Owner 2 G Gumloop
Help Cent er 
URL 
https://support.ramp.com/hc/en-us/articles/4417836454419
Bill-payment-methods-and-timelines
T ags 
Last edited at: 20250624T170034Z  
Help Center URL Bill payment methods and timelines
Overview
As the fastest bill payment product on the market, Bill Pay offers a variety of 
payment methods that ensure your vendors are paid fully and on time. You can 
also pay your bills with the assurance that we'll notify you if it looks like you're 
paying a duplicate bill.
Please note: All Ramp bill payments—whether by check, ACH, or card—are free to 
use. There are no processing fees.
Jump to:
Paying by card
Paying by ACH
   Regular delivery
Bill p a yment methods and timelines
1
   Same-day delivery
Paying by domestic wire
Paying by check
Paying by international wire USD
Paying cross-border
Paying outside of Ramp
Payment notifications
Receipts and Remittance Advice
Paying by card
Ramp Bill Pay lets you pay your bills using both your existing cards and Single-use 
Ramp cards. If your vendor accepts Visa cards, this is a great way to earn 
cashback.
Learn more about paying your bills via Ramp card here.
Paying by ACH
With Bill Pay, ACH payments to your vendors have never been easier or faster. 
Here's more information to help you make ACH payments.
Regular Delivery:
Payment timeline:
Bill p a yment methods and timelines
2
Regular ACH payments take 2 or 5 business days, depending on Bill Pay usage to 
date and information about your limit and connected bank accounts. However, 
Ramp has made ACH payments even faster with same-day delivery on eligible 
bills. Jump to Same-Day ACH to learn more. 
Maximum payment: When paying by ACH, no maximum amount is required.  
Bill Pay dates explained:
Due date: the date that the vendor expects the payment to arrive  
Payment date: the date the payment leaves your account  
Estimated arrival: the date the payment will be delivered to the vendor  
When bills are marked as paid:
Bill payments via ACH will be marked as paid in your connected accounting 
provider once Ramp withdraws (debits) funds from your connected account 
(debits). The bill payment will be marked as paid in Ramp once the bill payment 
funds have been credited and received by your vendor. See more information 
about Bill Pay Accounting: Bill Pay Accounting
What do ACH payments look like in my bank statement:
As a Ramp customer, your bank statement will show " Vendor Name }} Invoice 
Number  BILL PAY". Your vendor's bank statement will show " Business Name 
}}  Invoice Number  BILL PAY".
Bill p a yment methods and timelines
3
For example, if your company is Cafe Kramer and you are paying invoice 018 to 
Jerry Donuts, your payment to the vendor will show as "JERRY DONUTS 018 BILL 
PAY". Jerry Donuts will see this on their bank statement for the same payment: 
"CAFE KRAMER 018 BILL PAY".
Same-day delivery
Ramp allows customers to process payments more efficiently and quickly by 
offering same-day delivery for eligible ACH bill payments. To enjoy unlimited, free 
same-day ACH payments with the confidence that your vendors receive funds the 
day you send them, select "Business Account" under "Pay from account". If you 
donʼt have a Ramp Business Account yet, you can sign up here.
On eligible bills, you will see a drop-down on the ACH Delivery time that will allow 
you to select Same-Day delivery for a $10.00 flat fee. Bills with same-delivery that 
are fully approved by 400 PM EST on the scheduled date will remit funds to 
vendors within the same business day.
Bill p a yment methods and timelines
4
Same-Day Delivery Eligibility
Please note that if a bill is recurring, same-day delivery will not be available within 
the drop-down. Additionally, if your business or bill falls into one of these 
categories, your bill may not be eligible for same-day delivery.
New to Ramp: Same-day delivery will become available to your business after 
a few successful bill payments are made on Ramp.  
Outstanding Balances: If you have any outstanding balances owed to Ramp 
for statement payments in the last 60 days, same-day delivery will not be 
available for your bill payments.  
Bill p a yment methods and timelines
5
Vendor Bank: Certain receiving banks are considered higher risk; thus, Ramp 
cannot offer same-day delivery to these banks to reduce risk and potential 
fraud. Also, even if a bank is eligible, we cannot guarantee that the bank will 
make the funds available on the date of payment transmission.  
High Bill Amount: To ensure secure payment delivery, Ramp does not offer 
same-day delivery for higher bill amounts.
Paying by domestic wire 
Ramp enables you to pay vendors using domestic wire transfers through FedWire, 
offering a secure and efficient way to quickly transfer large transaction amounts to 
vendors within the United States. The maximum amount allowed for domestic wire 
transfers is $10 million per transaction.
Payment timeline
You will have the option to pay with domestic wire for a $15.00 flat fee. Ramp will 
withdraw funds via an ACH debit from your connected bank account on the 
scheduled date.
Payments can take between 05 business days.  
Bills that are fully approved before 100 PM EST on the scheduled date will be 
sent to vendors within the same business day.  
Same-day domestic wire eligibility
Same-day domestic wire may not be available due to the following categories:  
Bill p a yment methods and timelines
6
High Bill Amount: To ensure secure payment delivery, Ramp does not offer 
same-day domestic wire delivery for higher bill amounts.  
Outstanding Balances: If you have any outstanding balances owed to Ramp, 
same-day domestic wire may not be available for your bill payment.
When are bills marked as paid:
Bill payments via wire will be marked as paid in your connected accounting 
provider once Ramp withdraws (debits) funds from your connected account which 
may take 1 business day. The bill payment will be marked as paid in Ramp once 
the bill payment funds have been credited and received by your vendor. 
Paying by check
Bill Pay lets you pay your US-based vendors with a check.  Here's helpful 
information to know when making check payments
Payment timeline:
Ramp will withdraw funds via an ACH debit from your connected bank account on 
the scheduled date which can take 25 business days to process. Once Ramp 
receives these funds, we will issue and deliver a paper check to your vendor 
within 47 business days. If a check is not cashed within 180 days of issuance, 
Ramp will automatically void it.
What's printed on the checks:
Bill p a yment methods and timelines
7
Ramp checks will be printed with the bill amount, the name of the business 
paying, and a check memo pulled from the Vendor Memo field in the Ramp bill. 
The following will be printed under the signature: "Ramp Business Corp., as 
agent."
Check envelopes will include the vendor's name and address, and display your 
business address as the return address.
Delivering Ramp checks:
Our checks take about 47 business days to reach your vendor, and if you 
schedule a payment for a date beyond six business days, we will ensure it reaches 
the vendor on time. If you schedule a check payment on a non-business day 
(holiday or weekend), we will send it on the following business day.
Note: Ramp relies on USPS for physical check delivery. While most checks arrive 
as expected, delivery cannot be guaranteed 100% of the time.
If a check's payment status shows as 'Delivered' but the vendor hasn't received it, 
you can cancel and resend the payment by following these steps:
 Go to the Bill Pay section in Ramp.  
 Locate the check payment you want to cancel.  
 Click the three vertical dots or open the Bill Actions tab.  
 Select Cancel Payment.  
 Confirm the cancellation.  
Once canceled, you can reinitiate the payment:
Bill p a yment methods and timelines
8
Using the same method (check), or  
Choosing an alternate method (e.g., ACH, wire transfer).  
Confirming a check payment was successful:
We do our best to ensure every check payment reaches its intended destination. 
Once checks are deposited, they are moved from the "Payments" tab to the "Paid" 
tab within Ramp Bill Pay.  
Cancelling a check:
You can cancel issued check payments directly in Ramp if your vendor has not 
deposited the check. Log in to Ramp, go to the Bill Pay tab, locate the bill 
payment, click the three-dot icon to the far right, and select Cancel payment. 
Marking check bills as paid:
Ramp will mark a bill as paid within your accounting provider once the funds have 
been withdrawn from your bank account. Check payments will be marked as paid 
on Ramp when your vendor cashes the check.
Bill p a yment methods and timelines
9
Paying by international wire (USD)
You can now pay your international vendors in USD on Ramp. 
When setting up a new vendor on Ramp, simply enter the country to which you are 
paying your vendor. Afterward, you'll be able to either enter your vendor's SWIFT 
and IBAN (or IBAN equivalent) codes or request that information from your vendor 
on Ramp.
Payment timelines:
Ramp will first ACH debit your connected account for the required funds in USD, 
which may take 14 business days. Then, Ramp will wire the payment to your 
vendor, which can take up to an additional 15 business days. 
Bill p a yment methods and timelines
10
When are bills marked as paid:
Bill payments via wire will be marked as paid in your connected accounting 
provider once Ramp withdraws (debits) funds from your connected account. The 
bill payment will be marked as paid in Ramp once the bill payment funds have 
been credited and received by your vendor. 
Paying cross-border (FX)
You can now pay your international vendors in foreign currency on Ramp. 
Similar to international payments in USD above, when setting up a new vendor on 
Ramp, simply enter the country to which you are paying your vendor. Afterward, 
you'll be able to enter your vendor's international banking details within Ramp.
Payment timelines:
Ramp will first ACH debit your connected account for the required funds in USD, 
which may take 14 business days. Then, Ramp will convert the debited funds 
using competitive exchange rates and deliver the payment to your vendor in their 
local currency, which can take up to an additional 15 business days. 
When are bills marked as paid:
FX Bill payments will be marked as paid in your connected accounting provider 
once Ramp withdraws (debits) funds from your connected account. The bill 
Bill p a yment methods and timelines
11
payment will be marked as paid in Ramp once the bill payment funds have been 
credited and received by your vendor. 
Paying outside of Ramp
If a bill needs to be paid with a payment method outside of Ramp, you may select 
your payment type as "I won't pay this with Ramp."
If this payment method is selected, your bill will still be routed through the 
approval chain. However, once payment is completed, you will need to come back 
to Ramp and manually mark the bill as paid. Additionally, while Ramp can sync the 
open bill to the accounting provider, since the bill is paid outside of Ramp, the bill 
payment cannot be auto-synced to the accounting provider. 
Payment notifications
Paying fast doesn't mean paying in the dark. Bill Pay notifies employees of the 
correct information through email and Slack. You can always see the status of 
your bills in any of the Bills pages.
Email (only to AP Clerks and Admins if they created the bill)
The payment was failed, returned, or changed
Slack (business alerts channel)
Payment was sent  
Bill p a yment methods and timelines
12
The payment was failed, returned, or changed  
For more information about vendor notifications, read here: Bill Pay Vendors and 
Vendor Owners
Receipts and Remittance Advice
Ramp makes it easy to track vendor payments by tracking receipts alongside your 
bills. Receipts are an easy way to help locate payments and provide vendors with 
confirmation that a payment has been completed.
Downloading Receipts
You can download the receipt as a PDF to save for your own records or to send to 
vendors directly. 
 To get started, navigate to the Bill Pay tab on Ramp  
 Click on History to locate the desired bill  
 In History, you have the option to download the receipt under the Actions 
column  
Bill p a yment methods and timelines
13
Receipt Details
The receipt PDF contains the following:
Business Name and Vendor Name  
Contact Details for Both Parties  
Invoice Date  
Invoice Number  
Related Purchase Order Number (if available)  
Payment Method and Currency  
Invoice Description  
Payment Amount and Date  
Based on the payment type, we also provide details that help banks locate 
payments: 
Check: Check Number or Check Image (if available)  
ACH Trace IDs (if available) and Vendor Account Details  
Bill p a yment methods and timelines
14
International Wire: Trace IDs (if available) and Vendor Account Details  
How to view check images (Pre- and post-deposit)
If you need proof that a check has been mailed or deposited—for record-keeping, 
vendor follow-up, or dispute resolution—you can access check images directly 
from the bill details view.
Hereʼs how to find them:
 Go to the Bills tab and click on the relevant bill  
 Scroll to the "Keep an eye out for this payment" section  
 Click the down arrow to expand the details  
 Youʼll see one or both of the following check images, depending on the billʼs 
status, and you'll have the option to Download check
Pre-deposit image (Check in the mail)
This is the check that was mailed out to the vendor  
Available once the bill status is "Check in the mail"  
Useful for confirming payment was issued  
Bill p a yment methods and timelines
15
Post-deposit image (Check deposited)
This is the image from the bank of first deposit, confirming the vendor 
deposited the check  
Available once the bill status is "Paid"  
Useful for verifying the check cleared successfully  
If you have trouble locating a check image or need assistance with a specific 
payment, please contact Ramp Support.
Frequently Asked Questions
Are there any fees for using Ramp Bill Pay?  
Bill p a yment methods and timelines
16
Standard ACH, card, and check payments are free to use. However, fees apply for 
certain expedited or specialized payment methods:
Same-day ACH payments: $10 per transaction  
Domestic wire transfers: $15 per transaction  
International wire SWIFT USD payments: $20 per transaction  
More information about these fees can be found here: Bill Pay fees.
Why was my payment debited later than the scheduled date?  
Payments are initiated on the scheduled date, but ACH debits typically clear by 
the next business day due to NACHA settlement processes. For example, a 
payment initiated on Feb 2nd may clear by the next business day. Bill Pay syncs to 
the customer's ERP after the debit clears, ensuring accurate accounting.
How can a Vendor check the status of a payment?  
Vendors have the option to create an account in the Ramp Vendor Portal. Once 
registered, they can log in at any time to view payment statuses, download 
remittance information, and manage their account details. Vendors can accept 
faster payments for a 1% fee; faster payment offers are not guaranteed and are 
completely optional. 
If a Vendor reaches out asking for proof or status of payment, we recommend 
directing them to the Vendor Portal. You can share the following article with them 
to get started: Ramp Vendor Portal: How to create and use your account
Bill p a yment methods and timelines
17